Parent and children aggregations (#9722)
opensearch-project/documentation-website: _aggregations/bucket/children.md

layout: default
title: Children
parent: Bucket aggregations
nav_order: 15

> redirect_from:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

>   - /query-dsl/aggregations/bucket/children/

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

---

# Children

The `children` aggregation is a bucket aggregation that creates a single bucket containing child documents, based on parent-child relationships defined in your index.

The `children` aggregation works with the [join field type]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/field-types/supported-field-types/join/) to aggregate child documents that are associated with parent documents.

> The `parent` aggregation identifies child documents that have matching parent documents, whereas the [`parent` aggregation]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/aggregations/bucket/parent/) identifies parent documents that have matching child documents. Both aggregations take the child relation name as input, but they operate in opposite directions across the parent-child relationship.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The `children` aggregation identifies child documents that match specific child relation name, whereas the [`parent` aggregation]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/aggregations/bucket/parent/) identifies parent documents that have matching child documents. Both aggregations take the child relation name as input.
```

layout: default
title: Children
parent: Bucket aggregations
nav_order: 15
redirect_from:
  - /query-dsl/aggregations/bucket/children/
---

# Children

> The `children` aggregation is a bucket aggregation that creates child buckets based on parent-child relationships defined in your documents. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The `children` aggregation is a bucket aggregation that creates one bucket of child documents based on parent-child relationships defined in your documents. 
```

The `children` aggregation works with the [join field type]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/field-types/supported-field-types/join/) to aggregate child documents that are associated with parent documents.

The `children` aggregation provides inverse functionality to the [parent aggregation]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/aggregations/bucket/parent/). The parent aggregation identifies parent documents based on matching child documents; the children aggregation identifies child documents based on matching parent documents.

## Parameters

The `children` aggregation takes the following parameters:

| Parameter             | Required/Optional | Data type       | Description |
| :--                   | :--               | :--             | :--         |
| `type`                | Required          | String          | The name of the child type from the join field. This identifies the parent-child relationship to use. |

> | `aggs`                | Optional          | Object          | Sub-aggregations to run on the child documents. |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

I think this aggs is general for any type of bucket aggregation, so better to not showing here but in a general doc page for bucket aggregation
